Now that we have critical numbers.
We went ahead and we classified them.
So we drew a number line with the two under four.
And then we have to pick values to the left and right of each.
So to the left of two we pick zero between two and four we pick three.
Again you don't need to pick two values because this is the same interval to the right of two is the
same as saying to the left of four.
And finally to the right are.
We picked ten.
So we got our three test values 0 3 and 10 and we plugged them into our derivative here Prime of 0 F
prime of 3 and f prime of 10 this gave us for 0 8 24 4 3 negative 3 and for 10 144.
So we got positive negative positive.
We went ahead and went back to the number line and we said positive to the left up to negative between
204 and positive to the right of 4.
All right.
Based on these results that we got over here.
So finally to do the classification we use our mnemonic and we had and draw an example of them X and
an example of a minute and we draw our slopes and we draw our alliance.
So for a max to the left of it you need to have a positive slope going up and to the right of Max you
need to have a negative going down in the same way for a min to the left of the men.
It's going down.
So you need to have a negative slope and to the right of the men you have a positive because you're
going up.
So based on that we could classify We have two to the left of the two we have a plus.
And to the right we have a negative.
Therefore it's a max in the same way in the four to the left.
We have a negative and to the right we have a plus.
So it's a min.
That's why we set we have a relative Max at X equals two and a relative meant Addicks equals four.
As a final step and this really depends on your professor whether they would require you to do this
or not.
But we found the corresponding y values to these 2 x values.
And again remember these are not plugged into the derivative.
If you plug these into the derivative you're going to get zero because these are critical numbers.
We actually go ahead and plug these in into the original function which is what we did on the top here.
So for two the y value is 20 and a 4 for the y value 16.
Therefore we know we have a relative Max at 220 and we have a relative of men at 4 Khama 16.
That is an application of the first derivative test or a quick summary of the first derivative test
to find relative extrema.
We actually have two things that we need to do first is to find the critical points.
Now I said critical point but what you really need to find is the critical numbers you find the critical
points at the end.
So in other words what you do is you find the numbers that make the derivative either equal to zero
or undefined.
And then you classify them.
So the first derivative test is actually a way of classifying relative extrema and you classify them
as either Max men or neither by using Tezz values in the derivative.
Remember that you use one as value to the left and a want this value to the right of each critical number.
Now to remember which ones which you can actually use the mnemonic which says that you draw a mountain
and a whole.
So you draw a max and a min with the corresponding slopes and signs.
So let me do this one more time.
So if you have for example this Max and this min.
So this would be airMAX
and this would be your men
then you would just draw a line to the left and the right of both the max and the men.
So here we have the max.
Let's draw a line to the left and line to the right.
And here we draw a line to the left and aligned to the right as well.
And based on the slope of these lines we know what the signs to the left and the right should be.
So for example for the max we have a positive slope because it's going up.
So he needs to be positive on the left and to the right of the Max we have a negative slope because
it's going down as you go left to right for the men on the other hand.
If you approach it from the left then you actually have a negative slope because it's going down.
Sorry that's supposed to be a negative.
And on the other hand to the right of the men you have a positive slope because as you go from left
to right it's going up.
So based on this you can actually classify your points.
If you get a critical number and to the left you have a positive slope and to the right you have a negative.
Then you know it's a max based on this same thing for the men if you have a critical number and to the
left you have a negative derivative.
And to the right you have a positive then you know it's a mint.
So anytime you have to do a first derivative task problem all you need to do is draw your max and your
men draw your lines and put your signs so that after that you'll be able to classify them easily.
And then finally to find the actual critical points and remember here the keyword is points you plug
in the critical numbers that you found in the original function.
You do not plug in those critical numbers into the derivative.
If you do you're either going to get zero or undefined because that's what a critical number is and
that you're going to go ahead and you're going to plug them in.
So the original function to get the corresponding y value of that critical number then that x y points
is going to be your relative Max and your relative min.
All right so this probably was a little complicated.
It's a little bit new we haven't done anything like this before.
But again remember this is very similar to the increasing and decreasing intervals section.
All right.
So later on we're going to cover the second derivative test which is pretty much like the first derivative
test but instead of using the first derivative we're going to use the second derivative and I'll see
you in the next tutorial.